home remedy for cold and cough in children

COUGH & COLD

Ajwain seeds - (Ajwain is called Asamtavoman or Omam in tamil) 

Boiling garlic cloves in mustard oil (Katuku Oil in tamil) and applying it externally on chest of baby also helps

Rubbing warm mustard oil with a few garlic cloves and kalonji in it on chest,under nose,back of feet and palm 

Boiling water with ajwain and few tulsi leaves.

Boil Ajwain seeds and honey/tulsi leaves in drinking water and feed at regular intervals

Juice of grated raw GARLIC can help in overnight relief from cold and cough.. It'll build strong immunity and also relief frm gas.. But it isnt easy coz raw garlic is really really strong.. U may modify it as per u like or maybe just one garlic cloves juice..

This is the most effective of All. This works like magic. Take a spoon of Turmeric and a glass of milk (hot without sugar).Eat Turmeric first and then followed by Milk. Next morning you will feel that cough and cold was not there at all :-)

Boil water add cinnmon (Elavanga Pattai),turmeric,pepper drink it with smile because i cannot

Fennel tea (Perunseragam Vidaigal). I got up at 1.15 am. Unable to breathe without coughing and found this web site. Then before I made up any of the remedies I made a cup of fennel tea. Incredible, unbelievable, instant relief.

Dor a cough that is in the chest and lungs (unproductive) take 1 tablespoon of dried thyme a good pinch of cayenne pepper (Red Chilli) and some honey in a glass of hot water. I tried this when antibiotics from the doctor did not work, not only did my chest start to feel better but i also got a fantastic sleep. i looked up thyme and apparently its been used as a sleep aid and anntiseptic for centuries also was used for courage. by the way remember to strain the above mixture.

I have a really bad throat at the moment so I put a few tea spoon in hot water and mix with a fair amount of lemon juice. The lemon cleans your throat and the honey coats it and keeps it protected, it feels a bit like plastic but really helps fight the germs.

Get some fresh Ginger and put it in a juicer. Add some fresh lemon and some turmeric powder add honey or sugar as the ginger is hot in taste.

Garlic tea immune enhancer
A well-known immune system strengthener, garlic shines as an antibacterial and antiviral herb for fighting colds, coughs and the flu. One of the best ways to take advantage of garlic's healing properties is by drinking fresh garlic tea. Sweetened with a little raw honey, it's delicious and helps to heal what ails you. Peel 2 to 3 cloves of fresh garlic and lightly crush them with the side of a wide knife blade. Add them to 2 cups of water and bring to a boil. Lower the heat and simmer for another 15 minutes. Strain the garlic and allow the tea to cool to mouth temperature. Add raw honey, a tiny pinch of cayenne pepper and a squeeze of lemon juice. Drink as much as desired.

Learn more: http://www.naturalnews.com/035323_home_remedies_colds_coughs.html#ixzz2NJgwbANH


Red onion and raw honey cough syrup
A wonderful home remedy for adults or kids suffering from a cough uses brown cane sugar, raw honey or stevia and red onions to make a soothing and tasty cough syrup. Wash, peel and slice the entire onion horizontally. Starting with the base of the onion, layer the slices in a bowl alternating with layers of raw honey or brown sugar. Stevia powder works well for this home remedy too; however, it is extremely sweet. Continue adding layers of onion and sweetener until the entire onion is reconstructed in the bowl. Cover and allow the sweetened onion to remain in the bowl on your counter for about 12-15 hours or overnight. The next day, there will be about a cup or more of sweet syrup in the bowl. The cough syrup contains a range of nutrients, vitamins and minerals from the onion and the honey to help fight infection and soothe sore throats and quiet a cough. Take a spoonful as needed. Has no onion-y taste.

Learn more: http://www.naturalnews.com/035323_home_remedies_colds_coughs.html#ixzz2NJh0swDB


Raw honey and lemon for sore throats
A mixture of fresh lemon juice and raw honey provides soothing relief for sore throats and helps stop the tickle that stimulates coughing. Raw honey -- with all its components including royal jelly, propolis and bee pollen -- is high in nutrients and enzymes which kill bacteria and viruses. The vitamin C and antioxidants found in fresh lemons boost the immune system, speeding healing. Together these two home remedies are a powerhouse for getting over a cold and sore throat. Mix the juice of 1/2 the lemon with 2 to 3 tablespoons of honey and sip throughout the day as needed.

Chicken soup antiviral
Chicken soup really does act to knock out a cold or the flu and hasten healing. As long ago as the 12th century, the Jewish physician Maimonides recommended consuming chicken soup to fight colds and flu. Take advantage of the high antioxidant properties and nutrients found in organic vegetables and chicken. Although non-organic chicken soup may relieve some cold symptoms, it also supplies the body with pesticides, growth hormones, herbicides and antibiotics that are not recommended for well being. Go organic all the way and get well quickly.

Mullein tea for coughs and congestion
Mullein tea is well-known for relieving chest congestion from coughs, colds and the flu. It acts as an expectorant, loosening trapped mucous and soothing sore throats. Make mullein tea by filling a tea ball or strainer with dried mullein herb and steeping in a cup of boiling water for 10 minutes. Sweeten with raw honey and drink as needed to relieve symptoms.

Learn more: http://www.naturalnews.com/035323_home_remedies_colds_coughs.html#ixzz2NJh3MTPz

